#Components consisting of the AWS Global Infrastructure

- Availability Zones
Physical Datacenters of AWS. Compute, Storage, Network and database resources are hosted within a Virtual Private Cloud (VPC).
Multiple datacenters can form a single availability zone. 
Each AZ will always have at least one other AZ closely located.
These AZ are seperated in terms of power and network connectevity.
Data is replicated for HA and reilience purposes. Using multiple AZs within a region ensures a HA environment. 


- Regions
As a result of the above information, a Region is a collection of AZs closely located. 
Each region will act independently of other regions and each region will contain at least two AZs.

Thus it makes sense to use regions close to your customer base to ensure low latency response times.
Also from a regulatory standpoint your data may not be allowed to cross a specific geographical region.

You can also use Regions the same way you can use AZs in terms of creating HA across regions.

Not all AWS services are available to every region.
Some services are "global services" which means they are not tied to a specific region but other AWS services may not be

- Edge Locations
These are not used to deploy your main infrastructure.
They are used by end users who are accessing the main services. 
A user may accessing services from Asia which are located in in the Ohio region.
The data will be accessed by an edge location closer to the US. 

- Regional Edge Caches
These sit between a main infrastructure and the edge locations.
The regional edge caches have a larger sized cache than the individual edge locations.
This means data is retained for a longer time.

When data is requested by edge locations which is no longer available then the data can be retreived by the regional edge caches. 
The catch is the latency is higher than it is with the Edge Locations


#####
-PLACEMENT GROUPS

- Cluster Group.
Grouping of instances with in a single AZ.
Often times on the same rack.
Often times on the same server.
All nodes communicate at 10Gpbs

- Partition Placement Group.
Instances are grouped in partitions and run in one AZ
The instances are divided into logical segments aka partitions.
Each parition is its own rack and network.
You can have up to 7 partitions per AZ.
 
            AZ
------------------------
PART1    PART2    PART3
RACK     RACK     RACK
-----    ----     ----
 EC2      EC2      EC2
 EC2      EC2      EC2
 EC2      EC2      EC2



-Spread Placement Group
They span over multiple AZs
Instances are spread across racks.
You can have 7 instances per AZ per placement group

 AZ     AZ    AZ
-----  ----  ----
RACK   RACK  RACK
EC2    EC2   EC2

RACK   RACK  RACK
EC2    EC2   EC2





-
