AWS Storage services

- Block Storage
Data is stored in chunks known as blocks
These blocks are stored on a volume and attached to a single instance
They have low latency.

- File Storage -  aka Network Share
Data is stored in seperate files with a series of directories
Data is stored in a file system
Access to multiple users is provided
They are similar to NAS

- Object Storage
Objects are stored across a flat address space
They are referenced through a unique key
Each object has associated metadata to categorize and ID the object

- Instance Store Volumes
These provide ephemeral storagy, meaning it is temporary
If an instance is stopped or terminated all data will be removed.
However, a reboot maintains the data
The benefits of using this kind of storage:
- Price is included in the price of the instance.
- I/O speed is very high
- They work great as a cache or buffer for rapidly changing data
- Also used in a load balancing group where data is replicated across the envrinment
- Keep in mind not all AWS instances support this storage volume
- The size of the volume increases as you increase the size of the EC2 instance


- EBS - Elastic Block Storage
Persistend and durable block level storage
Much easier to manage data
This kind of storage is easily attached to your EC2 instance
They are used for rapidly changing data.
These are logically attached to your EC2 instance and not directly (like instance store volumes).
Each EBS volume can be attached to a single EC2 instance
A single EC2 instance can have multiple EBS volumes
Data remains intact regardless if restarted, stopped or terminated
Snapshot backups are available. These snapshots are stored in S3. The backups on S3 are incremental.
With the use of a snapshot you can recreate the EBS volume if somehow gets lost.
You can copy a snapshot from one region to another
Every write to an EBS volume is replicated mutliple times within the same availability zone of your region
This means the EBS volume is available in a single Availability Zone.
If you lose your availability zone, you will lose access to your EBS volume.
Hence why snapshots can help you recreate the EBS volume and attach it to another Availability Zone if the previous one is no longer available
EBS volumes can be setup with either SSDs or HDDs.
 - SSDs are preffered when working with smaller block of data, like Databases and overall low latency data. 
    Business applications which require sustained IOPS performance.
   
 - HHDs are preffered when working with high throughput, large blocks of data. These are broken down to 2 sub categories
   a) Throughput Optimized HHD: For frequently accessed data, intensive workloads, streaming workloads such as big data, data warehouses, log processing.
   b) Cold HHD. This is a lower cost designed for less frequently accessed workloads.

### EBS SECURITY
A region can be setup to have a default encryption setup
  



